---
title: "Displaying the Full Content in Hugo's RSS feed"
summary: The default RSS feed in Hugo site shows article abstract only. But what should I do if I want to display full content of the articles in the feed?
date: 2020-07-03T09:53:38+08:00
lastmod: 2020-07-03T09:53:38+08:00
draft: false
categories: ["Dev"]
tags: ["tutorial", "hugo", "rss"]
thumbnail: /posts/displaying-the-full-content-in-hugo-rss-feed/cover-images/cover-images.001.png
---

## Background

Recently I created a hugo blog and started writing articles (yes, that's the blog you are reading). Later, I found that dev.to can [publish articles (as draft) from a RSS feed](https://dev.to/settings/publishing-from-rss). In that way I don't have to copy-and-paste my articles manually in order to publish the same item on dev.to!

## 😨 Problem {#problem}

Although dev.to's puslishing from RSS feed service is great, my Hugo site is not that great (with the basic settings). **When I was trying to sync my RSS feed items to dev.to, all items can be imported but only the beginning part of the content was fetched.**

I know that should be something wrong with the RSS feeds generated by Hugo. The [default Hugo RSS template](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/master/tpl/tplimpl/embedded/templates/_default/rss.xml) only renders `Summary` of an article and my Hugo theme is using that:

{{< gist bemnlam 83b253aef5526c30ca5535c72bd861cc >}}

As you can see in **line 73**, the [`<description>`](https://validator.w3.org/feed/docs/rss2.html)  in my RSS feeds contain article summary only but not the full content. Is there any ways to change the `Summary` here into something else? Something else that represents the **full content**?

## 😀 Solution {#solution}

### Locating `rss.xml`
Usually, Hugo templates are placed under `{your hugo theme}/layouts/_defualt/`. If such file does not exist, it's time to create one. You can copy-and-paste the code from [Hugo's github](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/master/tpl/tplimpl/embedded/templates/_default/rss.xml) or run the following `curl` command under `/layouts/_default` to download it:

```bash
curl "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gohugoio/hugo/master/tpl/tplimpl/embedded/templates/_default/rss.xml" > rss.xml
```

### Rendering the full content

Rendering the full content of is really simple and straight-forward. What you need to do is just replacing this:

```go-html-template
<description>{{ .Summary | html }}</description>
```
With this:
```go-html-template
<description>{{- .Content | html -}}</description>
```

Caution: use `{{-` instead of `{{`. Read [the bonus part](#bonus-the-difference-between--and---in-hugo) if you want to know what is the difference.

### Regenerating the site
Updating the RSS template **will not** update your **generated content** automatically. Therefore, you need to re-generate your Hugo site:

```bash
hugo
```

You should see the changes in all RSS xml files (from git). After that, push all the code changes, remove all the fetched posts in dev.to and re-fetch them. That's it.

## Bonus: The difference between `{{` and `{{-` in Hugo

You may notice that the template code is changed into `{{-` from `{{`. As a newbie in Hugo I checked [the Hugo's official documentation about *whitespace*](https://gohugo.io/templates/introduction/#whitespace). 


> ... the ability to trim the whitespace from either side of a Go tag ...

This `-` notation is introduced in Go 1.6.

The following example (from the documentation):

```go-html-template
<div>
  {{ .Title }}
</div>
<div>
  {{- .Title -}}
</div>
```
Which will output:

```html
<div>
  Hello, World!
</div>
<div>Hello, World!</div>
```

In other words, that's the [`trim()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/trim) in JavaScript. That's the [`String.Trim()`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.string.trim) in C#.

## Conclusion

The default RSS feed in Hugo site shows *article abstract* only. By defining a custom `rss.xml` template and replacing `{{ .Summary | html }}` with `{{- .Content | html -}}` in the `<description>` tag you will get the article's full content in the re-generated RSS xml files.
